Questions from Multithreading- 
•	What are the new features introduced in java 6 for collection framework to have a better synchronization ConcurrentNavigableMap(its advantages), CopyOnWriteArrayList, CopyOnWrite-ArraySe is expected. It also comes under collection part. 
•	Callable and Future.
•	Thread Synchronization – expected the working of synchronized block and methods
•	Static vs Non-Static synchronization / locking.
•	All methods of thread.  Join, wait Notify, Notify all are mostly preferred.
•	Use of Volatile keyword
•	Immutability of objects – All aspects of immutable class and defensive copying.
•	Real life scenarios where thread priority, concurrency and thread pooling is asked in tricky manner
Questions in collection – 
•	Why to have an immutable class as a key in maps. 
•	Internal working of a Map like bucket, indexed table, hashcode, load factor, initial capacity, Null members etc.
•	Difference between ArrayList, linkedlist and  Vector
•	Treeset, Hashset differences and internal functionality.
•	Use of Collections (class) utility.
•	Use of sorting techniques like comparable, comparator etc.
•	Why to have equal and hashcode method overrides. 
•	 what is the use of final keyword. 
•	What does below statement imply.(Internally how does it work with and without final keyword )
  final Emp e= new Emp();

why do we need to create immutable class. Why is String immutable?
 
          2 tables emp and dept. Retrieve number of employees per department.

Questions from java.lang.String
•	StringBuilder and StringBuffer usage
•	Scenario based questions like 
o	There is a file with some text in it. How to count the total no of Lines, words it.
o	How to count the repeated words in a file.
•	String formatting and immutable aspect of String
JDBC
•	Difference between statements of JDBC.
•	Advantage of having  Hibernate over JDBC and also possible sql injection security attacks. 
•	Mostly Callable statement, Scrollable result-set transaction management etc.
Miscellaneous:
•	Volatile and transient
•	Atomic variables in synchronization. 
•	DateTime, Gregorian Calendar etc.
Questions from Spring
•	What is IOC and DI? 
•	What are the Modules you worked till now- MVC being the important- explain the flow from first request to response serving. 
•	Integration of REST and Spring.
•	Integration of Spring and Hibernate
•	Spring Security module- Authentication flow. 
•	Spring AOP- flow and use.
Questions from database- 
•	Expect a very basic question on Joins.
•	Primary, Unique and foreign keys
•	Difference in procedure and function. 
•	Use of triggers.
•	Scenario based- How you will have a periodic back up of tables. 

A sample List of questions asked by client during an interview:
1. Difference between Array list and Linkedlist?
2. Please explain any difficult situation in your project and how to handle?
3. Explain Serialization and Deserialization?
4. Scenario: Suppose I have your CV and i need to calculate total count of JAVA word and total count of world in your CV how to do it?
5. Explain Singleton pattern?
6. Internal working of HashMap?
7. How to calculate total count of users are visited to your website?
8. How to do it table backup (reflection) on particular time in SQL server? 
9. Explain Generic feature?
10. Explain Threading Pool in Executor framework?
11. Scenario: Suppose 10 threads process parallel if one thread is stop because of some exception all threads will stop automatically also if same thread is start all threads will be start how to do it?
12. Scenario: Suppose at time of xml parsing if you read name(in short form) ‘kk’ then in database you will write Kiran kumar how to do it?
13. Difference between DOM and SAX parser?
14. Why we will go with Hibernate if Jdbc already available?
15. Explain second level Cache?

1)      What is Concurrent # MAP
2)      Benefits of Concurrent #Map over #MAP.
Exception Concurrent #
Each segment works as #MAP at same time
One segment can lock instead whole locking
16 segments, each thread will lock it self
3)      How segment get locked Read and Write?
 
4)      1 Million numbers in Array .. how to short this Array?
Tree Map
5)      Revers word in String.
6)      SQL quesries.. like find max salary form each department
7)      What are different join?  Then specific join.. outer join
8)      Diff between procedure and functions
9)      Out of Memory exception? How do you proceed for production issue?
10)   How to get the thread dump?
11)   Already sorted Array. How to find  specific  number?--- Binary Search
12)   Time complexity? O of N type
13)   Ina file some words, you need to print the frequency of word.
14)   How to create new list?
15)   Diff bet’n string builder and string buffer? Not thread safe string builder.. buffer is thread safe
16)   Multi threading? Two publishers even and odd number. Make a program to print them in order  1,3,5,7,9  other other 0,2,4,6,8,10
17)   How to create new set?  Can you instantiate like set s = new set()? 
18)   SQL query: highest salary from department
19)   Two tables: find the common records between two tables: inner join
20)    How you write  Right outer join? Is it possible?   Write syntex of Left outer join  and Right outer join.. ORACLE.. Right outer joine where it will be located ..? next to Table 1 or table2?
21)    Diff. b/w Abstract Class & Interface. Can we live without Interface?
22)   How does a hashmap works?
23)   If all elemnts having same hash code then how hashmap will store it.
24)   How to reduce the time complexity of O(n), if all elements are having the same hash code. We are free to choose any data structure.
25)   Sql Query - Removing duplicate records from table.
                         - no. of emp. acc. to gender whose DOB is in b/w 1980-2000.
                         - All the emp. having addresses.
                         - All employees having salary higher than average salary.

DS+Algo
Collections v/s legacy classes
Collections.binarySearch
Map comparison
List comparison
Internal workings - List, Set, Map
Map - rehashing, 

Concurrent
Executor f/w
Kind of thread pools
volatile v/s atomic

Java
Ice Cream Parlour design
Shopping Cart discount design
Execute a program to check heap state with all 4 GC algorithms

MAVEN
profile
multimodule
archetype
phases/lifecycle
test, code coverage
static code analysis

REST
application config to setup
error handling
API exposure

@Contribution
JPA Standalone -  performance, query correctness
XML Generator
SVN Tagging utility
Service Virtualization
REST invoker from main
REST wrapper classes
Load balancing for REST URI
Error message replay

JSF
Debugging JSF phases
Managed bean v/s Backing bean
Lifecycle of JSF
Converter and Validator in JSF
JSF v/s GWT
